Not video we converted our car into a vehicle such that when the car is driving the wheels can turn
and roll like a real life vehicle would we haven't implemented driving yet.
We'll do that in the next video for now.
Just notice how the car vibrates like it has an actual engine.
But how do we steer the car.
For example I want to start when I orient my fill in to the left.
The car's wheels should steer to the left.
If I orient my phone to the right the cars will steer to the right.
Right now they don't move at all to get started.
There's a delegate that's made specifically for physics simulations called did simulate physics that
time that simulate physics at time.
This method is called once per Phryne if your session is running at 60 frames per second then this delegate
gets called 60 times a second.
So inside of you did load right self does scene view does show statistics is equal to true and inside
of did simulate physics put a print statement of simulating physics
remove this prince tainment for now and run the up if you look at the statistics bar on the bottom.
It's telling us that scenes are rendered at 60 frames per second and this print statement you see in
the debugger is happening 60 times per second as well.
This is basically a never ending loop a rendering loop any game logic.
In our case the vehicle logic we add to this rendering loop is immediately reflected and displayed in
the scene making this the perfect delegate function for physics simulations.
The first thing I want to simulate is the car's wheels turning as I rotate my phone in different orientations.
Now I remember from before in lecture 3 of the suction the accelerometer lecture we discussed how when
the vertical acceleration is zero there is no gravitational acceleration being applied in the vertical
part of the phone.
So the phone would be completely horizontal when the vertical acceleration is closer to one or a negative
one.
That means all the acceleration is being applied on the vertical part of the phone making the phone
completely vertical.
So based on the value of our vertical acceleration we can determine the orientation of our phone such
that when this is zero the orientation of the phone is horizontal and when it's one or negative one
the orientation of the film is completely vertical.
So back to our view controller make a variable var orientation of type C.G. float is equal to zero.
So the default value is zero inside of the accelerometer to change set the orientation self orientation
is equal to your vertical acceleration.
Since we discussed before that whatever the vertical acceleration is is going to reflect the orientation
of the phone.
So now we have the orientation of the phone we can orient the wheels accordingly.
Before I explain what I'm getting to write the following Self of vehicle data set steering angle orientation
and we want to steer the front wheels the front wheels are located at index's two and three of our vehicle
wheels are right.
So we're going to steer the wheel that's an index number two of the array.
The front right wheel and we're also going to steer the front left wheel the one that's an index.
Three of our vehicle wheels are at four wheel at three
put this French S.M. back.
Delete this one and run the app so remember that we set the steering angle equal to the orientation
of the phone which is basically just equal to the vertical gravitational acceleration.
Now when the phone is completely horizontal the gravitational acceleration is going to be zero or approach
zero when the steering angle is zero.
The wheel will not rotate at all.
This would make the steering angle zero.
The wheels will not rotate at all since there will be no steering angle at zero no angle of rotation
is being applied to the wheels.
At the moment however here's what would happen.
The closer the acceleration gets to negative one.
So as I move my phone to the right our steering angle will get close to negative one as well as the
steering angle gets close to negative one.
The wheels will move to the right since the vertical acceleration approach is negative one the phone
is being oriented to the right.
So in other words you could say that when I orient my phone to the right the wheels will steer to the
right.
Let me show you a demonstration of this to see if that's the case.
Wait till the world origin loads once your world orange loads start detecting some planes once you've
detected a big enough plane.
Your car and for now make sure that the phone is oriented completely horizontally such as that the camera
is positioned where your left hand is not your right hand your left hand.
I'll explain why later.
But make sure that you follow what I'm doing.
So right now my phone is completely horizontal.
The vertical acceleration the acceleration Why is zero so the steering angle of the wheel is zero since
the steering angle is zero.
The wheels should not rotate at all and they should be completely horizontal as they are right now.
However if I orient my phone to the right the closer the vertical acceleration you get to negative one
the steering angle gets closer to negative 1 and the wheels move to the right.
If I orient my phone to the left the acceleration Y gets closer to 1.
The steering angle gets closer to one and the wheels move to the left.
This is perfect.
If you orient to the right the wheels go to the right.
If you orient to the left the wheels go to the left.
We just accomplish something huge.
The accelerometer is telling us how much gravitational acceleration is being applied on the vertical
part of the phone and we're using this acceleration to represent how the phone is oriented and based
on the orientation of the phone.
We set our steering angle and we're using that steering angle to orient the wheels.
Now note that we're actually orienting the wheel parents but since the wheels are children of the wheel
parents as we have it right here in our scene file the wheels our children of our parents whereas the
wheels are positioned exactly where the parents are whatever steering angle we apply to the wheel.
Parents that steer applies to the wheels as well.
One more thing to note is that we're adding the orientation to the vehicle variable the vehicle variable
remember controls the behavior of our car.
So by setting the steering angle for the vehicle we're setting a steering angle for the car itself.
So from now on just know that whatever we do to this vehicle variable is going to apply to our car since
we made it such that the vehicle controls the behavior of our car itself at all times.
Now there is a bug.
Remember how I was telling you to make sure that you orient the phone completely horizontally but such
that the camera is positioned where your left hand is what if I positioned the camera where my right
hand was.
Let me just rerun the app wait till the world origin loads start detecting some surfaces once you've
detected a large enough surface in your car.
And right now my phone is positioned such that the camera is to my left as I move the film to the left
the car goes left as well.
If I orient my phone to the right the car goes to the right.
Everything is perfect at the moment.
Now what if I rotate my phone a full 180 degrees such that the phone is horizontal still.
However the camera is positioned where my right hand is the camera of the phone.
If I orient my phone to the left the wheels orient to the right if I orient to my phone to the right
the wheels go to the left.
Well here is what's happening.
So when the phone is completely horizontal such that the camera is positioned where my right hand is.
The vertical accelerations direction gets reversed and therefore the steering angle gets reversed as
well.
So we need a way of figuring out when the phone is oriented horizontally.
But the other way around such that the camera is on the right and as we've been doing this entire time
the only way to figure out how the phone is oriented a certain way is to use our acceleration data.
This time we're going to use our acceleration X sprint that run the app so if I rotate my phone such
that it's completely horizontal but the camera is positioned where my left hand is the acceleration
due to gravity in the x direction whether I move to the right or left as negative.
However if I reverse my orientation such that the phone is completely horizontal whereas the camera
is positioned where my right hand is the acceleration due to gravity in the x direction is also reversed.
So whether I move my phone to the right or the left it will be positive not negative.
So now we know how to detect when the camera is positioned next to my right hand.
When the acceleration in the horizontal direction is positive.
So back to your view controller if the acceleration X is bigger than 0 so if the horizontal acceleration
is positive then set the orientation equal to the reverse of our vertical acceleration.
This makes sense since when the horizontal acceleration is bigger than zero.
So when the phone's cameras positioned where my right hand is the vertical acceleration gets reversed
and we're reversing and by adding this negative else if the camera is positioned where my left hand
is.
So if everything was as it was before just leave the orientation equal to their regular vertical acceleration.
So here's what I just did.
We're using the vertical acceleration to set our orientation the vertical acceleration is reversed.
When the phone is rotated horizontally such that the camera position where my right hand is when the
vertical acceleration is reversed.
The steering wheel gets reversed as well.
We also concluded that when the phone is in that position such that the camera is where my rear end
is the x acceleration is always positive.
And of course the acceleration is reversed.
So if the x acceleration is positive then and reverse the Y acceleration and the steering angle should
now be fixed.
Otherwise if the acceleration not X is not bigger than 0 if the camera is positioned where my left hand
is we have everything the way it was before.
Now the bug should be fixed.
So we're on the up
going to wait till the world origin loads once it loads start detecting some surfaces once you've detected
a large enough surface in your car and no matter how well orienting my phone if I go to the left wheel
steer to the left if I go to the right the wheels steer to the right.
So even if I reverse the orientation of the phone such that the camera is where in my right hand is
if I go to the left the wheels go to the left.
And if I go to the right the wheels go to the right as well.
This is looking pretty good.
Now that we're done with orientation we know how to steer the wheels based on the orientation of the
phone and the next video.
We're going to start driving the car.